# Natural-Disaster-Relief-Website
A website for victims of natural disaster events to receive aid. Users make donation pledges for needed items. When a new donation request is made, the donation pledges closest to the requesting user's location are used first. Users can also fulfill active donation requests, view their past donations and donation requests including their statuses.

# Project Structure 
This project uses a React front-end, Node.js Express REST API back-end, and MySQL database for the tech stack. Vite was used as a dev server to speed up the user interface design process, Yarn was used as the package manager, and Tailwind was used for styling. In the server directory, the controllers run database procedures on the database to access data. The routes direct the requests to the correct controller functions. In the client directory, The react components are defined in the components directory and are used in the pages under the pages directory. 

# Project Setup
Run 'yarn install' in the server and client directories to install all of the needed packages. In your MySQL Workbench create a new database schema for this project. Run the [001_initial_migration.sql](\server\db\migrations\001_initial_migration.sql) file in your database schema to create all the needed tables. Run all of the procedure files in the [procedures](\server\db\procedures) directory to establish the database procedures. Finally, create a .env file in the server directory similar to the .env.example and fill in the four fields accordingly. 

Run the [data.sql](\server\db\dummydata\data.sql) file if you would like to populate the needed tables with dummy data. In the client directory, run "yarn dev" in a terminal to start an instance of the client. In a separate terminal and in the server/src directory, run "node start.js" to run the server.